 <Ender innovations>
"It's alive! Dear lord almighty, it's alive!"

Name: NCC-1701 (Navigational Computer Chip)
Version: 1701
ID: 0x89FE5AE1
Manufacturer: 0xE142A1FA (Ender innov.)

About: The purpose of this device is to take a major load off the dcpu in the
navigational department. It processes raw sensory and radar data, and using
hardware interrupts, can give this processed data to the dcpu so the dcpu can
focus on using this data to preform complex automatic orbital maneuvers, basic
maneuver calculation, or just plain displaying the data for the user to pilot
with. Features an internal list of trackable targets using radar data. These
targets can be individually locked onto to get an external reference frame to
further define the ship's orbit relative to the target's frame of reference.

INTERRUPT BEHAVIOR:

When referring to A, B, C, I, J, X, Y, and Z it is referring to registers in
the dcpu-16.

Note: If any of the data points below are equal to 0xFFFF or 0xFFFFFFFF then
the data is not available. Also the binary format for defining an angle in
degrees and minutes is: [Caaaaaaaaabbbbbb] b=minutes a=degrees C=sign (if
needed).

A - behavior

0 - GET_ORBIT_BASIC_DATA 

Sets a 5 word area of ram starting at B to a list of data points that define
the ship's orbit without an external reference frame.

Data format:
    UINT32 apoapsis (height in meters)
    UINT32 periapsis (height in meters)
    UINT16 eccentricity of the orbit (1/1000)
                    0x0000 circular orbit (e=0)
           0x0001 - 0x03e7 elliptic orbit (0<e<1)
                    0x03e8 parabolic orbit (e=1)
           0x03e9 - 0xfffe hyberbolic orbit (1<e<65.535)
                    0xffff hyberbolic orbit (e>=65.535)

1 - GET_ORBIT_REFERENCE_DATA 

Sets a 4 word area of ram starting at B to a list of data points that define
the ship's orbit with strongest gravity field as reference frame.

The first 3 words are set to the inclination relative to a selected target's
orbital plane, the angle of ascending node to the periapsis, the angle of the
ship's periapsis to the target's periapsis (inclination is ignored) in that
order and all in the 16-bit angular format described above. The last word is
set to the orbital state relative to the target's orbit (0=orbiting in same
direction, 1=orbiting in opposing direction).

Halts the DCPU-16 for 4 cycles.

2 - GET_TIMES 

Sets a 10 word area of ram starting at B to the times until major nodes and
another 4 word area after to speed data. The first 10 words are the time till
apoapsis, periapsis, ascending node, descending node, and total orbital period
in that order and all in 32-bit integers defining the time in seconds.

The last 4 words is the current orbital speed in mm/s and current acceleration
in mm/s^2, both in 32-bit integers using millimeters as the unit of length.


